The Origin of the Four Leaf Clover
Roxy Rowles and Ava-Grace Redick
March 8, 2018

Share via EmailPrint
Centuries ago in Ireland, the four leaf clover introduced as a sign of luck to all. Based on legends, the four leaf clover is “legendary” and a symbol of good luck if you find one. Additionally, clovers, or shamrocks, play a prominent role during St. Patrick’s Day because of copious old legends. However, there is the existence of fake clovers which we usually get confused on whether the clovers we find are genuine. Overall, clovers symbolize luck along with other characteristics, they represent St. Patrick’s Day because of old legends, and there are a variety of clovers, but only one is the real clover.

If you are lucky enough to find a four leaf clover you may see some future good luck ahead of you. Furthermore, the four leaves of a clover represent different characteristics. They include faith, hope, love, and success. (betterhomesandgardens.com). Additionally, there are 10,000 three-leaf clovers for every one four-leaf clover. Therefore, the chance of finding one of these lucky plants is highly unlikely.

Clovers originate from old legends that have eventually passed on throughout time. According to www.fourleafclover.com, “Eve carries a four leaf clover from the Garden of Eden.” Moreover, four-leaf clovers are Celtic charms that offer magical protection once one is found. Furthermore, four-leaf clovers “ward off bad luck” and provide security and protection. Clovers represent a symbol of Holy Trinity on St. Patrick’s Day. In all, clovers are passed down from legends and are a symbol of magical protection on St. Patrick’s Day.

However, some clover is not genuine and fake. For instance, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Four-leaf_clover explains, “To have a real clover it must be a Trifolium repens (white clover).” In other words, the Trifolium repens is the authentic clover that is rare to find a four-leafed one. Usually, if you find a genuine clover, the 4th leaf will be smaller than the other three blades. Trifolium Repens is also known as Dutch clovers and ladino clovers. In contrast, imposters of the four-leaf clovers are the Oxalis Deppei, Marsilea Quadrifolia, and Marsilea Polycarpa. These clovers are profoundly mistaken for rare genuine four-leaf clovers. The Trifolia Repen clovers are mainly found in Ireland, but they can be all over the globe. For example, according to guinessworldrecords.com, Shigeo Obara, a Japanese citizen, found a bizarre clover with 56 leaves setting a new record!

While finding a four leaf clover, there are some tips to follow. First, look for a patch of clovers usually they are found buried in a patch of clovers. Usually, clovers are found in shady, dry areas surrounded by trees and bushes. If you happen to find a four leaf clover keep looking in the same patch, usually it’s a genetic mutation, and you may find another. Researchers have found at Georgia a rare recessive gene causing more three leaf clovers average than four-leaf clovers in current data that has been studied.

Overall, four-leaf clovers are a sign of good luck coming from old legends passed on throughout time. Today the chance of finding a clover is 1 in 10,000 3 leaf clovers. Additionally, there is only one real genuine type of clover known as the Trifolium repen. In other words, four-leaf clovers are used as symbols of luck during St. Patrick’s Day and are still rare today.

Photo Courtesy of Corner of our World